## Setup
Let's set-up a project while separating its dependencies from other *Python* projects on the target machine.

### 1. Installing Virtual Environment

Let's use ***pip*** to install the Virtual Environment package:
```
pip install virtualenv
```

Let's check the version:
```
virtualenv --version
```

### 2. Creating Virtual Environment

Now, let's create a Virtual Environment, I'll use an existing folder (the current folder) for creating a Virtual Environment inside:

```
virtualenv DjangoNotes
```

This creates *pyvenv.cfg* file and two folders inside the given folder, i.e., *Lib* and *Scripts* on a Windows machine.

> ***Note:*** The created folders might be different on different OS environments. Therefore, for using commands, you might have to use *source <script-name>* on a Unix/Linux-based OS.

> ***.gitignore:*** Since these three top-level items are generated by the tool, and are machine dependant; therefore, I'm ignoring them through .gitignore file in this repository.

Let's go with the general practice in the industry and remove our generated environment by deleting these files that are created by the command.

Let's create Virtual Environment in *venv* folder inside this folder (commonly *env*, *venv* or *ENV* are used):

```
virtualenv venv
```

### 3. Activating / Deactivating Virtual Environments

Now that our virtual environment has been setup, let's activate it:

```
venv\Scripts\activate
```

> ***Note:*** The created folders might be different on different OS environments. Therefore, for using commands, you might have to use *source <script-name>* on a Unix/Linux-based OS.

We can deactivate it by using:

```
venv\Scripts\deactivate
```


### 4. Installing Dependencies

Let's first activate our Virtual Environment before installing *Python* dependencies:

```
venv\Scripts\activate
```

Now, let's install django:

```
pip install django
```


### 5. Creating Dependencies File

It's a general practice to tell others about the dependencies that we are using. Fortunately, Virtual Environment makes it quite easy:

```
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```
